2025 01 30 - Release Notes (#4779)
Azure/AKS: CHANGELOG.md

* The open-source project Bridge to Kubernetes will be retired on April 30, 2025. For more information, please see the [Bridge to Kubernetes](https://github.com/Azure/Bridge-To-Kubernetes) repository.
* The HTTP Application Routing add-on (preview) is going to be [retired](https://azure.microsoft.com/updates?id=retirement-http-application-routing-addon-preview-for-aks-will-retire-03032025) on March 3, 2025. You will no longer be able to create clusters that enable the add-on. [Migrate](https://learn.microsoft.com/Azure/AKS/app-routing-migration) to the generally available Application Routing add-on now.

### Release Notes
* Features:
  * AKS Kubernetes patch versions 1.29.11, 1.30.7 and 1.31.3 are now available.
  * Security patch releases in release tracker, starting with 20250115T000000Z will contain release notes for the release.

* Preview Features:

>   * You can now monitor your stateful workloads running on AKS with ACtor using Azure Monitor managed service for Prometheus in Preview. You can use Azure Monitor managed service for Prometheus to collect Azure Container Storage metrics along with other Prometheus metrics from your AKS cluster. For more information please see (Enable monitoring for Azure Container Storage)[https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/storage/container-storage/enable-monitoring?source=recommendations].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * You can now monitor your stateful workloads running on AKS with Azure Container Storage using Azure Monitor managed service for Prometheus in Preview. You can use Azure Monitor managed service for Prometheus to collect Azure Container Storage metrics along with other Prometheus metrics from your AKS cluster. For more information please see (Enable monitoring for Azure Container Storage)[https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/storage/container-storage/enable-monitoring?source=recommendations].
```

> ## Release 2025-01-06

Reviewer 2: This is the same as the previous release.

* The open-source project Bridge to Kubernetes will be retired on April 30, 2025. For more information, please see the [Bridge to Kubernetes](https://github.com/Azure/Bridge-To-Kubernetes) repository.
* The HTTP Application Routing add-on (preview) is going to be [retired](https://azure.microsoft.com/updates?id=retirement-http-application-routing-addon-preview-for-aks-will-retire-03032025) on March 3, 2025. You will no longer be able to create clusters that enable the add-on. [Migrate](https://learn.microsoft.com/Azure/AKS/app-routing-migration) to the generally available Application Routing add-on now.

### Release Notes
* Features:
  * AKS Kubernetes patch versions 1.29.11, 1.30.7 and 1.31.3 are now available.

>   * Security patch releases in release tracker, starting with 20250115T000000Z will contain release notes for the release.

Reviewer 3: @sf-msft dual-stack Cilium support GA. @quantumn-a5 for viz

Author: this is not actionable

Reviewer 4: LRB passed? Doc link @chasewilson?

Reviewer 5: https://github.com/MicrosoftDocs/azure-aks-docs-pr/pull/809 - LRB still pending approval

Reviewer: if LRB is pending approval, let's wait on adding to release notes. we can include in next release notes

Reviewer 3: Already talked with @sf-msft. This isn't being added. Resolving.

  * Update the ip-masq-agent-v2 to [v0.1.15](https://github.com/Azure/ip-masq-agent-v2/releases/tag/v0.1.15) to address [CVE-2024-45338](https://nvd.nist.gov/vuln/detail/CVE-2024-45338) and [CVE-2024-10220](https://nvd.nist.gov/vuln/detail/CVE-2024-10220)
  * Update NPM image to v1.5.41 to fix [CVE-2024-45338](https://nvd.nist.gov/vuln/detail/CVE-2024-45338) in usr/bin/azure-npm (gobinary) and GHSA-xr7q-jx4m-x55m in usr/bin/azure-npm (gobinary).  See the release notes for [v1.5.41](https://github.com/Azure/azure-container-networking/releases/tag/v1.5.41) for more details.
  * Update the prometheus collector for azuremonitor to the [01-16-2025](https://github.com/Azure/prometheus-collector/blob/main/RELEASENOTES.md#release-01-16-2025) release
  * VHD Updates
    * AKS Windows Server 2019 image has been updated to [AKSWindows-2019-17763.6775.250117](vhd-notes/AKSWindows/2019/17763.6775.250117.txt).
    * AKS Windows Server 2022 image has been updated to [AKSWindows-2022-20348.3091.250117](vhd-notes/AKSWindows/2022/20348.3091.250117.txt).

>     * AKS Windows Server 2022-23H2 image has been updated to [AKSWindows-2022-23H2-25398.1369.250117](vhd-notes/AKSWindows/23H2/25398.1369.250117.txt).

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
    * AKS Windows Server Annual Channel 23H2 image has been updated to [AKSWindows-2022-23H2-25398.1369.250117](vhd-notes/AKSWindows/23H2/25398.1369.250117.txt).
```

    * AKS Azure Linux 2.0 image has been updated to [202501.28.0](vhd-notes/AzureLinux/202501.28.0.txt).
    * AKS Azure Linux 3.0 image has been updated to [202501.28.0](vhd-notes/Azurelinuxv3/202501.28.0.txt).
    * AKS Ubuntu 2204 image has been updated to [202501.28.0](vhd-notes/aks-ubuntu/AKSUbuntu-2204/202501.28.0.txt).

>     * AKS Ubuntu 2404 image has been updated to [202501.28.0](vhd-notes/aks-ubuntu/AKSUbuntu-2404/202501.28.0.txt).

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
```

## Release 2025-01-06

Monitor the release status by regions at [AKS-Release-Tracker](https://releases.aks.azure.com/). This release is titled `v20250130`.

> ### Announcements

Reviewer 7: The open-source project Bridge to Kubernetes will be retired on April 30, 2025. For more information, please see the Bridge to Kubernetes [repository](https://github.com/Azure/Bridge-To-Kubernetes).

  * Addressed an issue related to node subnet `IPAM Invoker Add failed with error: Failed to allocate pool` in the CNI logs and the associated [agentbaker release](https://github.com/Azure/AgentBaker/pull/5551).
  * Added validation when a cluster migrates to CNI Overlay to block migration when there is a custom ip-masq-agent config in the kube-system namespace.  This prevents loss of connectivity during migration.  See the [AKS documentation](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/aks/upgrade-aks-ipam-and-dataplane) for more information.

* Component updates:
  * Cilium v1.14 version from v1.14.18-241220 to v1.14.18-250107 (v1.14.18-1) to include a fix for cilium dual stack upgrades. On upgrades, cilium config changes bpf-filter-priority from 1 to 2 but is not cleaning up the old filters at the old priority and as a result impacts connectivity. This patch will fix this bug, see GH issue in cilium repo for more details https://github.com/cilium/cilium/issues/36172

>   * Update the Azure disk driver version to v1.30.6 on AKS Version 1.30+

Reviewer: Line 46 mentions that disk CSI driver is getting upgraded to 1.30.7 on AKS 1.30 and 1.31, so that's more recent. We can remove this line.

Author: removed

  * Update Azure File CSI driver version to [v1.29.10](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/azurefile-csi-driver/releases/tag/v1.29.10) on AKS 1.28
  * Update Azure File CSI driver version to [v1.30.7](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/azurefile-csi-driver/releases/tag/v1.30.7) on AKS 1.29 and 1.30
  * Update Azure File CSI driver version to [v1.31.3](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/azurefile-csi-driver/releases/tag/v1.31.3) on AKS 1.31
  * Update Azure Disk CSI driver to [v1.29.12](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/azuredisk-csi-driver/releases/tag/v1.29.12) on AKS 1.28, 1.29
  * Update Azure Disk CSI driver to [v1.30.7](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/azuredisk-csi-driver/releases/tag/v1.30.7) on AKS 1.30, 1.31
  * Update Azure Blob CSI driver to [v1.23.10](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/blob-csi-driver/releases/tag/v1.23.10) on AKS 1.28, 1.29
  * Update Azure Blob CSI driver to [v1.24.6](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/blob-csi-driver/releases/tag/v1.24.6) on AKS 1.30, 1.31

>   * Update Workload Identity image version to v1.4.0

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * Update Workload Identity image version to [v1.4.0](https://github.com/Azure/azure-workload-identity/releases/tag/v1.4.0)
```

  * CNS/CNI updated to [v1.6.18](https://github.com/Azure/azure-container-networking/releases/tag/v1.6.18) which includes Cilium nodesubnet support
  * Added Multi-Instance GPU support for standard_nc40ads_h100_v5
  * Update the OMS image to [v3.1.25-1](https://github.com/microsoft/Docker-Provider/releases/tag/3.1.25)
  * Update secret store driver to [v1.4.7](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/secrets-store-csi-driver/releases/tag/v1.4.7) and akv provider to [v1.6.2](https://github.com/Azure/secrets-store-csi-driver-provider-azure/releases/tag/v1.6.2).
  * Updates the Retina basic image to v0.0.23 on Linux and Windows: [release notes](https://github.com/microsoft/retina/releases/tag/v0.0.23) 
  * Update karpenter image version to [0.6.1-aks](https://github.com/Azure/karpenter-provider-azure/releases/tag/v0.6.1)

>   * Update Cilium v1.16 from v1.16.5-250108 to v1.16.5-250110 (v1.16.5-1) to include a fix for Cilium dual stack upgrades. This will fix [https://github.com/cilium/cilium/issues/36172](https://github.com/cilium/cilium/issues/36172). The following CVEs are included in [v1.16.5](https://github.com/cilium/cilium/releases/tag/v1.16.5)
>     * [CVE-2024-52529](https://nvd.nist.gov/vuln/detail/CVE-2024-52529)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * Update Cilium v1.16 from v1.16.5-250108 to v1.16.5-250110 (v1.16.5-1) to include a fix for Cilium dual stack upgrades. This will fix [https://github.com/cilium/cilium/issues/36172](https://github.com/cilium/cilium/issues/36172). Cilium [v1.16.5](https://github.com/cilium/cilium/releases/tag/v1.16.5) also contains fix for [CVE-2024-52529](https://nvd.nist.gov/vuln/detail/CVE-2024-52529).
```

## Release 2025-01-06

Monitor the release status by regions at [AKS-Release-Tracker](https://releases.aks.azure.com/). This release is titled as `v20250130`.

### Announcements

> * General support for AKS Kubernetes version 1.28 was deprecated on Jan 30, 2025. Upgrade your clusters to version 1.29 or later. Refer to [version support policy](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/aks/supported-kubernetes-versions?tabs=azure-cli#kubernetes-version-support-policy) and [upgrading a cluster](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/aks/upgrade-aks-cluster?tabs=azure-cli) for more information.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
* General support for AKS Kubernetes version 1.28 was deprecated on Jan 30, 2025. Upgrade your clusters to version 1.29 or later. Refer to [version support policy](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/aks/supported-kubernetes-versions?tabs=azure-cli#kubernetes-version-support-policy) and [upgrading a cluster](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/aks/upgrade-aks-cluster?tabs=azure-cli) for more information.
* Azure Kubernetes Service will no longer support the [WebAssembly System Interface (WASI) nodepools (preview).](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/aks/use-wasi-node-pools) Starting on May 5, 2025 you will no longer be able to create new WASI nodepools. If you'd like to run WebAssembly (WASM) workloads, you can [deploy SpinKube to Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS)](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/aks/deploy-spinkube) from Azure Marketplace. For more information on this retirement, see [AKS GitHub](https://github.com/Azure/AKS/issues/4770).
```

> * Security patch releases in release tracker, starting with 20250115T000000Z will contain release notes for the release.

Reviewer 4: This seems like a feature?

Reviewer 8: i think we are missing 1.32 Preview announcement here.

Author: Moved to features section

@kaarthis - are we or aren't we?  I couldn't find any reference to that in the PRs

Author: 1.32 is not yet in preview.

> * Security patch releases in release tracker, starting with 20250115T000000Z will contain release notes for the release.

Reviewer 9: What is T000000Z?

Author: That's the format used to track the version of a security release in release tracker.

### Release Notes
* Features:
  * AKS Kubernetes patch versions 1.29.11, 1.30.7 and 1.31.3 are now available.
  * AKS LTS version 1.28 available in all regions.

>   * The upcoming apiVersion 2025-01-01 will enable additional outbound configurations to allow for servicing of network isolated clusters.

Reviewer 4: this seems like an announcement

Author: IDK - when we light up the apiVersion, this will be a feature but we won't have this level of detail (i.e. this specific change) when that apiVersion goes live.  I think feature is right here.

Author: reworded for future proofing

>   * CNI validation for node autoprovisioner now allows all CNI configurations except for Calico and kubenet.

Reviewer 4: Preview feature (NAP is in preview)

Author: moved to preview features sections

>   * AKS Automatic SKU now supports BYO Virtual Networks.

Reviewer 4: Preview Feature

Reviewer 9: Docs still need to go out, but I'll update the notes when they do.

Author: moved to preview features section

* Behavior change:

>   * Proper casing will be enforced on PUT of `Microsoft.ContainerService/managedClusters/agentPools` for the `AgentPoolMode` property. See this [issue](https://github.com/Azure/AKS/issues/4468) for more detail.

Reviewer 4: please mark issue as fix released once published

Author: set reminder

>   * Change the toggle for cilium nodesubnet support to `true` by default. The feature is still behind a feature flag  `EnableCiliumNodeSubnet`, but with this change, customers can create cilium nodesubnet clusters.

Reviewer 4: This is a new feature. Wording needs massaging

Author: Chase - is it a change in [default] behavior?  Or new? (featureflag is live already)

Reviewer 3: new feature flag. there is no change in default behavior.

Reviewer 3: This as a preview feature not necessarily a behavior change. Same as Dualstack support for Windows, or for Cilium dataplane. While they're two existing features, support for combination is behind an AFEC flag and should be viewed new preview functionality

Wording should be something like.  "Customers can now create new clusters with NodeSubnet using Azure CNI Powered by Cilium by enabling the `EnableCiliumNodeSubnet` preview feature."

Author: updated and moved to "preview features" section

  * Changes to removes Prometheus port and scrape annotations from Retina Linux and Windows daemonset for basic and advanced. This avoids duplication for customers utilizing Retina.

>   * New clusters will no longer be able to enable the HTTP application routing add-on. See the notice on this migration guide: https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/aks/app-routing-migration

Reviewer 4: Please add 

New clusters will no longer be able to enable the HTTP application routing add-on, which was deprecated and is different than the App Routing addon.

Author: done

>   * New clusters will no longer be able to enable the HTTP application routing add-on. See the notice on this migration guide: https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/aks/app-routing-migration

Reviewer 9: Reword as:
The HTTP Application Routing add-on (preview) is now retired. You can no longer create clusters that enable the add-on. [Migrate](https://learn.microsoft.com/Azure/AKS/app-routing-migration) to the generally available Application Routing add-on.

Author: updated and moved to announcements

>   * New clusters will no longer be able to enable the HTTP application routing add-on. See the notice on this migration guide: https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/aks/app-routing-migration

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
  * New clusters will no longer be able to enable the HTTP application routing add-on. See the notice on this migration guide: https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/aks/app-routing-migration
```

  * The Windows liveness probe for Managed Prometheus has moved to use a health endpoint starting with the image: 6.14.0-main-01-16-2025-8d52acfe. This change makes a backwards compatible change so that older images can still use the batch script for the liveness and the new image will use the health endpoint.

>   * The LoadBalancer can now be customized to include `port_*` annotations referenced in the [documentation](https://cloud-provider-azure.sigs.k8s.io/topics/loadbalancer/#loadbalancer-annotations).  An additional annotation has been added for: `external-dns.alpha.kubernetes.io/hostname`.

Reviewer 4: Replace with updated azure doc link

Reviewer 4: Still don't see the Azure doc, if there isn't an Azure reference it's not officially supported and can't be on the notes.

Author: added link

* Bug Fix: 
  * Fixed a typo (tcpKeepAlive - tcpKeepalive) in the istio [meshconfig toggle](https://istio.io/latest/docs/reference/config/istio.mesh.v1alpha1/#MeshConfig-tcp_keepalive). The typo made the toggle unusable since only toggles in the meshconfig are allowed.
  * Fixed a bug where some AgentPools with `"kubeletDiskType":"OS",` were not validated.
  * Fixed a bug when create a cluster with a private DNS zone may result in an `InvalidTemplateDeployment` error.

>   * Fixed an issue where the Karpenter image version was not being set correctly: TODO: confirm w/ Bryce.

Reviewer 9: There's a TODO here

Author: done

>   * Fixed a typo (tcpKeepAlive - tcpKeepalive) in the istio [meshconfig toggle](https://istio.io/latest/docs/reference/config/istio.mesh.v1alpha1/#MeshConfig-tcp_keepalive). The typo made the toggle unusable since only toggles in the meshconfig are allowed.

Reviewer 10: NIT Update the wording: "Fixed a typo replacing tcpKeepAlive with tcpKeepalive"

Author: note was removed

>   * Fixed an issue where the Karpenter image version was not being set correctly: TODO: confirm w/ Bryce.

Reviewer 10: remove the todo comment after it's confirmed

>   * Fixed an issue where the Karpenter image version was not being set correctly: TODO: confirm w/ Bryce.

Reviewer 10: remove the todo comment after it's confirmed

  * Added early validation when of valid subnets to block 169.254.0.0/16 (link local) before run-time failures occur.
  * Fixed a breaking change between AppArmor and cilium. Starting on K8s 1.30 and Ubuntu 24.04, cilium containers can fail with error Init:CreateContainerError since AppArmor annotations are no longer supported. This change keeps apparmor annotations for k8s versions below 1.30, and adds the new security context field for k8s versions 1.30 and above. Related PR in upstream cilium charts: [https://github.com/cilium/cilium/pull/32199](https://github.com/cilium/cilium/pull/32199).
  * Fixed a bug that prevented upgrade from starting if the PDB expected pod count is less than the minAvailable count.

>   * Change to propagate network plugin mode and network dataplane values to karpenter to enable alternate CNIs

Reviewer 4: You have this called out above as a feature

Reviewer 8: Is expected pod count customer facing ? I think we should talk to Paul , sushma and find the right massaging for this line item.

Author: removed dupe mention for CNI configs

Author: @kaarthis - expectedPods is part of the PDB

>   * Update the AKSNodeClass CRD to add vnetSubnetID and remove imageVersion

Reviewer 4: What is this fixing?

Author: add one property, remove another - behavior change then?

>   * Update the AKSNodeClass CRD to add vnetSubnetID and remove imageVersion

Reviewer 9: Likely related to Node Auto Provisioning, but unclear what this is doing.

Author: allows for custom subnet value for nodes

  * Addressed an issue related to node subnet `IPAM Invoker Add failed with error: Failed to allocate pool` and the associated [agentbaker release](https://github.com/Azure/AgentBaker/pull/5551).
  * Added validation when a cluster migrates to CNI Overlay to block migration when there is a custom ip-masq-agent config in the kube-system namespace.  This prevents loss of connectivity during migration.  See the [AKS documentation](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/aks/upgrade-aks-ipam-and-dataplane) for more information.

* Component updates:
  * Cilium v1.14 version from v1.14.18-241220 to v1.14.18-250107 (v1.14.18-1) to include a fix for cilium dual stack upgrades. On upgrades cilium config changes bpf-filter-priority from 1 2 but is not cleaning up the old filters at the old priority and as a result impacts connectivity. This patch will fix this bug, see GH issue in cilium repo for more details https://github.com/cilium/cilium/issues/36172

>   * Update the Azure disk driver version to v1.30.6 on AKS Version 1.30+ to fix CVE using toggle TODO: which CVE?

Reviewer 10: flagging this todo as fyi

  * Update Azure File CSI driver version to v1.30.7 on AKS 1.29 and 1.30
  * Update Azure File CSI driver version to v1.31.3 on AKS 1.31
  * Update Azure Disk CSI driver to v1.29.12 on AKS 1.28, 1.29
  * Update Azure Disk CSI driver to v1.30.7 on AKS 1.30, 1.31
  * Update Azure Blob CSI driver to v1.23.10 on AKS 1.28, 1.29
  * Update Azure Blob CSI driver to v1.24.6 on AKS 1.30, 1.31
  * Update Workload Identity image version to v1.4.0

>   * Azure Linux V3 sku can now be used with Mariner

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
```

Reviewer 6: AzLinux v3 GA and default needs to be called out in the Features section. Flora will add a comment for wording

>   * Update Azure File CSI driver version to v1.29.10 on AKS 1.28 LTS

Reviewer 10: LTS wording tbd

Author: removed

  * Update the ip-masq-agent to v0.1.15 to address [CVE-2024-45338](https://nvd.nist.gov/vuln/detail/CVE-2024-45338) and [CVE-2024-10220](https://nvd.nist.gov/vuln/detail/CVE-2024-10220)
  * Update NPM image to v1.5.41 to fix [CVE-2024-45338](https://nvd.nist.gov/vuln/detail/CVE-2024-45338) in usr/bin/azure-npm (gobinary) and GHSA-xr7q-jx4m-x55m in usr/bin/azure-npm (gobinary).  See the release notes for [v1.5.41](https://github.com/Azure/azure-container-networking/releases/tag/v1.5.41) for more details.
  * AKS Windows Server 2019 image has been updated to [AKSWindows-2019-17763.6775.250117](vhd-notes/AKSWindows/2019/17763.6775.250117.txt).
  * AKS Windows Server 2022 image has been updated to [AKSWindows-2022-20348.3091.250117](vhd-notes/AKSWindows/2022/20348.3091.250117.txt).
  * AKS Windows Server 2022-23H2 image has been updated to [AKSWindows-2022-23H2-25398.1369.250117](vhd-notes/AKSWindows/23H2/25398.1369.250117.txt).

>   * AKS Azure Linux image has been updated to [202501.28.0](vhd-notes/AzureLinux/202501.28.0.txt).

Reviewer 6: We now have a 2.0 and 3.0 image. We should probably specify

Author: Added a bullet for 3.0

### Announcements
* General support for AKS Kubernetes version 1.28 was deprecated on Jan 30, 2025. Upgrade your clusters to version 1.29 or later. Refer to [version support policy](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/aks/supported-kubernetes-versions?tabs=azure-cli#kubernetes-version-support-policy) and [upgrading a cluster](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/aks/upgrade-aks-cluster?tabs=azure-cli) for more information.
* Azure Kubernetes Service will no longer support the [WebAssembly System Interface (WASI) nodepools (preview).](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/aks/use-wasi-node-pools) Starting on May 5, 2025 you will no longer be able to create new WASI nodepools. If you'd like to run WebAssembly (WASM) workloads, you can [deploy SpinKube to Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS)](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/aks/deploy-spinkube) from Azure Marketplace. For more information on this retirement, see [AKS GitHub](https://github.com/Azure/AKS/issues/4770).

### Release Notes
* Features:
  * AKS Kubernetes patch versions 1.29.11, 1.30.7 and 1.31.3 are now available.

>   * apiVersion 2025-01-01 enables additional outbound configurations to allow for servicing of network isolated clusters.

Reviewer: network isolated clusters feature isn't GA yet, we can remove this line

Author: if we do it won't be announced when 2025-01-01 GA'd

Reviewer: we will announce it at the time of network isolated cluster GA. right now even if it's present in 2025-01-01 API, it's not usable

Author: removed

  * Security patch releases in release tracker, starting with 20250115T000000Z will contain release notes for the release.

>   * Custom subnets can be specified for node use via an update to the AKSNodeClass CRD which adds the vnetSubnetID property

Author: done

* Preview Features:

>   * CNI validation for node autoprovisioner now allows all CNI configurations except for Calico and kubenet.

Author: Perhaps a little unwieldy but can link to the doc.

>   * AKS Automatic SKU now supports BYO Virtual Networks.

Author: probably not needed since this is not unique to automatic

>   * AKS Automatic SKU now supports BYO Virtual Networks.

Reviewer: Adding @sabbour who said he was working on the doc

>   * AKS Automatic SKU now supports BYO Virtual Networks.

Author: added link

>   * `EnableCiliumNodeSubnet` preview feature provides the ability to create Cilium nodesubnet clusters using Azure CNI Powered by Cilium.

Author: nothing I can find - if you have one I can add

>   * `EnableCiliumNodeSubnet` preview feature provides the ability to create Cilium nodesubnet clusters using Azure CNI Powered by Cilium.

Reviewer: @chasewilson can help with the doc link?

>   * `EnableCiliumNodeSubnet` preview feature provides the ability to create Cilium nodesubnet clusters using Azure CNI Powered by Cilium.

Author: @chasewilson to update this later

>   * `EnableCiliumNodeSubnet` preview feature provides the ability to create Cilium nodesubnet clusters using Azure CNI Powered by Cilium.

Reviewer 4: if there's no doc then the launch is not done, move to next notes.

>   * `EnableCiliumNodeSubnet` preview feature provides the ability to create Cilium nodesubnet clusters using Azure CNI Powered by Cilium.

Reviewer 3: @sf-msft for pull request add. viz @quantumn-a5

>   * `EnableCiliumNodeSubnet` preview feature provides the ability to create Cilium nodesubnet clusters using Azure CNI Powered by Cilium.

Reviewer 5: Docs added here: https://github.com/MicrosoftDocs/azure-aks-docs-pr/pull/820

>   * `EnableCiliumNodeSubnet` preview feature provides the ability to create Cilium nodesubnet clusters using Azure CNI Powered by Cilium.

Author: removed

* Behavior change:

>   * Proper casing will be enforced on PUT of `Microsoft.ContainerService/managedClusters/agentPools` for the `AgentPoolMode` property. See this [issue](https://github.com/Azure/AKS/issues/4468) for more detail.

Author: PR was merged w/ this release, not sure what we referenced in the last one.

>   * Changes to remove Prometheus port and scrape annotations from Retina Linux and Windows daemonset for basic and advanced. This avoids duplication for customers utilizing Retina.

Author: it depends on what was in the config map, so it was cluster specific... if the bug impacted a cluster, it was obvious.

>   * Changes to remove Prometheus port and scrape annotations from Retina Linux and Windows daemonset for basic and advanced. This avoids duplication for customers utilizing Retina.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * Removed Prometheus port and scrape annotations from Retina Linux and Windows DaemonSets to avoid double scraping of metrics.
```

>   * Changes to remove Prometheus port and scrape annotations from Retina Linux and Windows daemonset for basic and advanced. This avoids duplication for customers utilizing Retina.

Reviewer 4: Were the suggested changes not accepted?

>   * New clusters will no longer be able to enable the HTTP application routing add-on, which was deprecated.  Note, the HTTP application routing add-on is different than the App Routing addon. See the notice on this migration guide: https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/aks/app-routing-migration

Author: change was reverted

>   * The Windows liveness probe for Managed Prometheus has moved to use a health endpoint starting with the image: 6.14.0-main-01-16-2025-8d52acfe. This change makes a backwards compatible change so that older images can still use the batch script for the liveness and the new image will use the health endpoint.

Author: note removed

>   * The LoadBalancer can now be customized to include `port_*` annotations referenced in the [documentation](https://cloud-provider-azure.sigs.k8s.io/topics/loadbalancer/#loadbalancer-annotations).  An additional annotation has been added for: `external-dns.alpha.kubernetes.io/hostname`.

Author: Not sure if the line numbers moved but this item already has a link.  Suggest the change if something is still missing after the next push.

>   * The LoadBalancer can now be customized to include `port_*` annotations referenced in the [documentation](https://cloud-provider-azure.sigs.k8s.io/topics/loadbalancer/#loadbalancer-annotations).  An additional annotation has been added for: `external-dns.alpha.kubernetes.io/hostname`.

Reviewer: just saw Jorge's comment. I think what he is asking too is on if we can include the Azure side documentation link for load balancer annotations (https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/aks/load-balancer-standard#customizations-via-kubernetes-annotations).

* Bug Fix: 

>   * Fixed a casing typo (tcpKeepAlive -> tcpKeepalive) in the istio [meshconfig toggle](https://istio.io/latest/docs/reference/config/istio.mesh.v1alpha1/#MeshConfig-tcp_keepalive). The typo made the toggle unusable since only toggles in the meshconfig are allowed.

Author: removed

  * Fixed a bug where some AgentPools with `"kubeletDiskType":"OS",` were not validated.
  * Fixed a bug when creating a cluster with a private DNS zone may result in an `InvalidTemplateDeployment` error.
  * Fixed a race and potential deadlock condition when a Non-Cilium cluster is updating to ACNS Cilium.

>   * Added early validation when of valid subnets to block 169.254.0.0/16 (link local) before run-time failures occur.

Author: updated, if it's still not clear, suggest a change.

  * Fixed a breaking change between AppArmor and cilium. Starting on K8s 1.30 and Ubuntu 24.04, cilium containers can fail with error Init:CreateContainerError since AppArmor annotations are no longer supported. This change keeps apparmor annotations for k8s versions below 1.30, and adds the new security context field for k8s versions 1.30 and above. Related PR in upstream cilium charts: [https://github.com/cilium/cilium/pull/32199](https://github.com/cilium/cilium/pull/32199).
  * Fixed a bug that prevented upgrade from starting if the PDB `expectedPods` count is less than the `minAvailable` count.
  * Fixed an error condition when AKS attempts to remove the taint `disk.csi.azure.com/agent-not-ready=NoExecute` on node startup.  More details: [https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/azuredisk-csi-driver/pull/2309](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/azuredisk-csi-driver/pull/2309)

>   * Addressed an issue related to node subnet `IPAM Invoker Add failed with error: Failed to allocate pool` and the associated [agentbaker release](https://github.com/Azure/AgentBaker/pull/5551).

Author: error shows in the logs

* Component updates:
  * Cilium v1.14 version from v1.14.18-241220 to v1.14.18-250107 (v1.14.18-1) to include a fix for cilium dual stack upgrades. On upgrades, cilium config changes bpf-filter-priority from 1 to 2 but is not cleaning up the old filters at the old priority and as a result impacts connectivity. This patch will fix this bug, see GH issue in cilium repo for more details https://github.com/cilium/cilium/issues/36172
  * Update the Azure disk driver version to v1.30.6 on AKS Version 1.30+
  * Update Azure File CSI driver version to v1.29.10 on AKS 1.28
  * Update Azure File CSI driver version to v1.30.7 on AKS 1.29 and 1.30
  * Update Azure File CSI driver version to v1.31.3 on AKS 1.31
  * Update Azure Disk CSI driver to v1.29.12 on AKS 1.28, 1.29
  * Update Azure Disk CSI driver to v1.30.7 on AKS 1.30, 1.31
  * Update Azure Blob CSI driver to v1.23.10 on AKS 1.28, 1.29
  * Update Azure Blob CSI driver to v1.24.6 on AKS 1.30, 1.31

>   * Update Workload Identity image version to v1.4.0

Reviewer: can we add links to these releases?

Author: done

>   * CNS/CNI updated to v.1.6.18 which includes Cilium nodesubnet support

Reviewer: - nit: extra '.' between 'v' and '1'
- can we add link to release? https://github.com/Azure/azure-container-networking/releases/tag/v1.6.18

Author: removed `.` and added link

  * Added Multi-Instance GPU support for standard_nc40ads_h100_v5

>   * Update the OMS image to v3.1.25-1

Reviewer: can we add link to release?

>   * Update secrets store driver to v1.4.7 and akv provider to v1.6.2.

Reviewer: can we add link to release?

>   * Update Container Insights to v3.1.25

Reviewer: we can remove this line since the line above on 'OMS image to v3.1.25-1' supersedes this one

Author: removed

  * Updates the Retina basic image to v0.0.23 on Linux and Windows: [release notes](https://github.com/microsoft/retina/releases/tag/v0.0.23) 

>   * Update karpenter image version to 0.6.1-aks

Author: done

>   * Update agentbaker version to v0.20250122.0

Reviewer: we don't need to capature agentbaker version bumps in release notes. we only need to add vhd notes into vhd-notes folder and reference them. we can remove this line

  * Update Cilium v1.16 from v1.16.5-250108 to v1.16.5-250110 (v1.16.5-1) to include a fix for Cilium dual stack upgrades. This will fix [https://github.com/cilium/cilium/issues/36172](https://github.com/cilium/cilium/issues/36172). The following CVEs are included in [v1.16.5](https://github.com/cilium/cilium/releases/tag/v1.16.5)

>     * [CVE-2024-52529](https://nvd.nist.gov/vuln/detail/CVE-2024-52529)

Reviewer: it's mentioned following CVEs at the end of the line but only one is listed here. can we check if there were more?

Author: nothing else is listed in desc or relnotes

>   * The following CVEs were patched in Cilium v.1.14.15

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * The following CVEs were patched in Cilium v1.14.15
```

    * [CVE-2024-24790](https://nvd.nist.gov/vuln/detail/CVE-2024-24790)
    * [CVE-2024-24791](https://nvd.nist.gov/vuln/detail/CVE-2024-24791)
    * [CVE-2024-34156](https://nvd.nist.gov/vuln/detail/CVE-2024-34156)
    * [CVE-2024-34155](https://nvd.nist.gov/vuln/detail/CVE-2024-34155)
    * [CVE-2024-34158](https://nvd.nist.gov/vuln/detail/CVE-2024-34158)
    * [CVE-2024-37307](https://nvd.nist.gov/vuln/detail/CVE-2024-37307)
    * [CVE-2024-42486](https://nvd.nist.gov/vuln/detail/CVE-2024-42486)
    * [CVE-2024-42487](https://nvd.nist.gov/vuln/detail/CVE-2024-42487)
    * [CVE-2024-42488](https://nvd.nist.gov/vuln/detail/CVE-2024-42488)
    * [CVE-2024-47825](https://nvd.nist.gov/vuln/detail/CVE-2024-47825)
  * Update the cost-analysis-agent image v0.0.19 to v0.0.20.  Upgrades the following dependencies in cost-analysis-agent to fix [CVE-2024-45337](https://nvd.nist.gov/vuln/detail/CVE-202445337) and [CVE-2024-45338](https://nvd.nist.gov/vuln/detail/CVE-2024-45338)
    * [golang.org/x/crypto](http://golang.org/x/crypto) v0.27.0 to v0.31.0
    * [golang.org/x/net](http://golang.org/x/net) v0.29.0 to v0.33.0
    * [golang.org/x/sys](http://golang.org/x/sys) v0.25.0 to v0.28.0

>     * [golang.org/x/text](http://golang.org/x/text) v0.18.0 to v0.21.0

Reviewer: can we link the release notes for these versions?

Author: added links

>   * coredns image v1.12.0-1 and v1.9.4-5 versions have been built using Dalec framework, published to MCR under oss/v2 path. All AKS clusters starting with 1.32+ versions will use v1.12.0-1 coredns image version and existing AKS clusters on 1.24+ versions will use v1.9.4-5 coredns image version.

Reviewer: we can probably skip mentioning 'have been built using Dalec framework, published to MCR under oss/v2 path' part and only mention the coredns image versions for > 1.32 and for 1.24 < x.y < 1.32

Author: I'd like to leave it since it's related to FIPS requirements

>   * Update the ip-masq-agent to v0.1.15 to address [CVE-2024-45338](https://nvd.nist.gov/vuln/detail/CVE-2024-45338) and [CVE-2024-10220](https://nvd.nist.gov/vuln/detail/CVE-2024-10220)

Reviewer: - nit: ip-masq-agent-v2
- can we add a link to release? https://github.com/Azure/ip-masq-agent-v2/releases/tag/v0.1.15

  * Update NPM image to v1.5.41 to fix [CVE-2024-45338](https://nvd.nist.gov/vuln/detail/CVE-2024-45338) in usr/bin/azure-npm (gobinary) and GHSA-xr7q-jx4m-x55m in usr/bin/azure-npm (gobinary).  See the release notes for [v1.5.41](https://github.com/Azure/azure-container-networking/releases/tag/v1.5.41) for more details.
  * VHD Updates
    * AKS Windows Server 2019 image has been updated to [AKSWindows-2019-17763.6775.250117](vhd-notes/AKSWindows/2019/17763.6775.250117.txt).
    * AKS Windows Server 2022 image has been updated to [AKSWindows-2022-20348.3091.250117](vhd-notes/AKSWindows/2022/20348.3091.250117.txt).
    * AKS Windows Server 2022-23H2 image has been updated to [AKSWindows-2022-23H2-25398.1369.250117](vhd-notes/AKSWindows/23H2/25398.1369.250117.txt).
    * AKS Azure Linux 2.0 image has been updated to [202501.28.0](vhd-notes/AzureLinux/202501.28.0.txt).

>     * AKS Azure Linux 3.0 image has been updated to [202501.28.0](vhd-notes/Azurelinuxv3/202501.28.0.txt).

Reviewer: nit: can we follow a similar folder structure to ubuntu and windows and create v3 as a subfolder under Azure Linux instead?

Author: I didn't create it so prefer not to break it - beyond the scope of relnotes as well.
